SECTION 4

1. Some fans feel that sports events are ------- only when
the competitors are of equal ability, making the
outcome of the game -------.

(A) successful . . assured
(B) boring . . questionable
(C) dull . . foreseen
(D) interesting . . predictable
(E) exciting . . uncertain

2. Alfred Schnittke’s musical compositions are -------:
phrases are clipped, broken into sections, and split
apart by long rests.

(A) garnished
(B) improvisational
(C) fragmented
(D) cautious
(E) uniform

3. The consumer advocate claimed that while drug
manufacturers ------- the supposed advantages
of their proprietary brands, generic versions of
the same medications are often equally -------.

(A) tout . . efficacious
(B) research . . innocuous
(C) market . . prohibitive
(D) laud . . counterproductive
(E) extract . . prescriptive

4. Latoya’s ------- is shown by her ability to be -------:
she can see her own faults more clearly than anyone
else can.

(A) perceptiveness . . self-centered
(B) objectivity . . restrictive
(C) cynicism . . self-destructive
(D) open-mindedness . . complacent
(E) insightfulness . . self-critical

5. The bearded dragon lizard is a voracious eater, so ------that it will consume as many insects as possible.

(A) abstemious
(B) cannibalistic
(C) slovenly
(D) insatiable
(E) unpalatable

6. Because drummer Tony Williams paved the way for
later jazz-fusion musicians, he is considered a ------of that style.

(A) connoisseur
(B) revivalist
(C) beneficiary
(D) disparager
(E) progenitor

7. The politician’s speech to the crowd was composed of
nothing but -------, a bitter railing against the party’s
opponents.
(A) digressions
(B) diatribes
(C) platitudes
(D) machinations
(E) acclamations

8. Favoring economy of expression in writing, the
professor urged students toward a ------- rather
than an ------- prose style.

(A) spare . . ornate
(B) terse . . opinionated
(C) personal . . academic
(D) baroque . . embellished
(E) repetitive . . intricate

PASSAGE
Passage 1
Food has always been considered one of the most salient
markers of cultural traditions. When I was a small child,
food was the only thing that helped identify my family as
Filipino American. We ate pansit lug-lug (a noodle dish)
and my father put patis (salty fish sauce) on everything.
However, even this connection lessened as I grew older.
As my parents became more acculturated, we ate less
typically Filipino food. When I was twelve, my mother
took cooking classes and learned to make French and
Italian dishes. When I was in high school, we ate chicken
marsala and shrimp fra diablo more often than Filipino
dishes like pansit lug-lug.
Passage 2
Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin— who in 1825 confi-
dently announced, “Tell me what you eat, and I will tell
you who you are”— would have no trouble describing
cultural identities of the United States. Our food reveals
us as tolerant adventurers who do not feel constrained
by tradition. We “play with our food” far more readily
than we preserve the culinary rules of our varied ancestors.
Americans have no single national cuisine. What unites
American eaters culturally is how we eat, not what we
eat. As eaters, Americans mingle the culinary traditions
of many regions and cultures. We are multiethnic eaters.

9. Which of the following statements best captures
the relationship between the two passages?
(A) Passage 1 notes problems for which Passage 2
proposes solutions.
(B) Passage 1 presents claims that are debunked
by Passage 2.
(C) Passage 2 furnishes a larger context for
the experiences described in Passage 1.
(D) Passage 2 provides an update of the situation
depicted in Passage 1.
(E) Passage 2 uses material presented in Passage 1
to correct a popular misconception.

10. The author of Passage 2 would most likely regard
the mother’s willingness to “make French and
Italian dishes” (lines 9-10, Passage 1) as

(A) laughably pretentious
(B) understandably conservative
(C) typically American
(D) a regrettable compromise
(E) a surprising attitude

11. The two passages differ in their discussions of food
primarily in that Passage 1
(A) considers specific dishes eaten by particular
people, whereas Passage 2 comments on
a culture’s general attitude toward eating
(B) contrasts the cuisines of different cultures,
whereas Passage 2 emphasizes culinary
practices common to all cultures
(C) presents an abstract theory of food, whereas
Passage 2 offers a historical analysis of
consumption
(D) emphasizes the role of nostalgia in food
preferences, whereas Passage 2 rejects
that approach as overly sentimental
(E) outlines some popular choices in cuisine,
whereas Passage 2 underscores those
that are more unusual

12. Unlike the author of Passage 2, the author of
Passage 1 makes significant use of

(A) direct quotation
(B) sociological analysis
(C) hypothetical assumptions
(D) historical sources
(E) personal experience

PASSAGE
PREFACE
The passages below discuss the possibility of locating
intelligent life on other planets. Passage 1 has been
adapted from a 1999 book on the history of the universe.
Passage 2 was excerpted from a 2000 book on the
scientific quest for extraterrestrial life.

Passage 1

Generations of science-fiction movies have conditioned
us to consider bug-eyed monsters, large-brained intellectual
humanoids, and other rather sophisticated extraterrestrial
creatures as typical examples of life outside Earth. The
reality, however, is that finding any kind of life at all, even
something as simple as bacteria, would be one of the most
exciting discoveries ever made.
The consensus within the scientific community seems to
be that we eventually will find not only life in other parts of
the galaxy but also intelligent and technologically advanced
life. I have to say that I disagree. While I believe we will
find other forms of life in other solar systems (if not in
our own), I also feel it is extremely unlikely that a large
number of advanced technological civilizations are out
there, waiting to be discovered. The most succinct support
for my view comes from Nobel laureate physicist
Enrico Fermi, the man who ran the first nuclear reaction
ever controlled by human beings. Confronted at a 1950
luncheon with scientific arguments for the ubiquity of
technologically advanced civilizations, he supposedly
said, “So where is everybody?”
This so-called Fermi Paradox embodies a simple logic.
Human beings have had modern science only a few hun-
dred years, and already we have moved into space. It is not
hard to imagine that in a few hundred more years we will
be a starfaring people, colonizing other systems. Fermi’s
argument maintains that it is extremely unlikely that many
other civilizations discovered science at exactly the same
time we did. Had they acquired science even a thousand
years earlier than we, they now could be so much more
advanced that they would already be colonizing our solar
system.
If, on the other hand, they are a thousand years behind
us, we will likely arrive at their home planet before they
even begin sending us radio signals. Technological
advances build upon each other, increasing technological
abilities faster than most people anticipate. Imagine, for
example, how astounded even a great seventeenth-century
scientist like Isaac Newton would be by our current global
communication system, were he alive today. Where are
those highly developed extraterrestrial civilizations so dear
to the hearts of science-fiction writers? Their existence is
far from a foregone conclusion.

Passage 2
Although posed in the most casual of circumstances,
the Fermi Paradox has reverberated through the decades
and has at times threatened to destroy the credibility
of those scientists seriously engaged in the Search for
Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) research program.
One possible answer to Fermi’s question (“If there are
extraterrestrials, where are they?”) is that extraterrestrials
have in fact often visited Earth, and continue to do so.
This is the answer of those who believe in the existence
of unidentified flying objects, or UFO’s. But few scien-
tists, even those engaged in SETI, take the UFO claims
seriously. “You won’t find anyone around here who
believes in UFO’s,” says Frank Drake, a well-known
SETI scientist. If one discounts the UFO claims, yet still
believes that there are many technological civilizations in
the galaxy, why have they not visited us? Drake’s answer
is straightforward: “High-speed interstellar travel is so
demanding of resources and so hazardous that intelligent
civilizations don’t attempt it.” And why should they
attempt it, when radio communication can supply all
the information they might want?
At first glance, Drake’s argument seems very persua-
sive. The distances between stars are truly immense.
To get from Earth to the nearest star and back, traveling
at 99 percent of the speed of light, would take 8 years.
And SETI researchers have shown that, to accelerate
a spacecraft to such a speed, to bring it to a stop, and
to repeat the process in the reverse direction, would
take almost unimaginable amounts of energy.
Astronomer Ben Zuckerman challenges Drake’s
notion that technological beings would be satisfied with
radio communication. “Drake’s implicit assumption is
that the only thing we’re going to care about is intelli-
gent life. But what if we have an interest in simpler
life-forms? If you turn the picture around and you have
some advanced extraterrestrials looking at the Earth, until
the last hundred years there was no evidence of intelligent
life but for billions of years before that they could have
deduced that this was a very unusual world and that there
were probably living creatures on it. They would have had
billions of years to come investigate.” Zuckerman contends
that the reason extraterrestrials haven’t visited us is that so
few exist.

13. Which statement about the Fermi Paradox is supported
by both passages?
(A) It articulates a crucial question for those interested
in the existence of extraterrestrials.
(B) It clarifies the astronomical conditions required
to sustain life on other planets.
(C) It reveals the limitations of traditional ideas
about the pace of technological change.
(D) It demonstrates the scientific community’s
fascination with the concept of interstellar
travel.
(E) It suggests that advanced extraterrestrial
civilizations may be uninterested in our
culture.

14. Which statement best describes a significant difference
between the two passages?
(A) Passage 1 analyzes a literary form, while
Passage 2 argues that literature has little
bearing on science.
(B) Passage 1 presents an argument, while Passage 2
surveys current opinion in a debate.
(C) Passage 1 concludes by rejecting the Fermi
Paradox, while Passage 2 opens by
embracing it.
(D) Passage 1 describes a phenomenon, while
Passage 2 details a belief system that would
reject such a phenomenon.
(E) Passage 1 defends a viewpoint, while Passage 2
questions that viewpoint’s place in scientific
research.

15. The author of Passage 1 mentions “monsters,”
“humanoids,” and “creatures” (lines 2-4)
primarily to
(A) question the literary value of science fiction
(B) contrast fictional notions with a scientific
perspective
(C) offer examples of the human fear of the unknown
(D) criticize science fiction for being unduly alarmist
(E) suggest that scientific research has been influenced by science fiction

16. In line 17, “ran” most nearly means

(A) fled
(B) accumulated
(C) traversed
(D) managed
(E) incurred

17. Passage 1 suggests that the Fermi Paradox depends
most directly on which assumption?
(A) Extraterrestrial civilizations may not wish to be
discovered by human beings.
(B) Extraterrestrial civilizations would most likely
have discovered technology at about the same
time human beings discovered it.
(C) Extraterrestrial technology would develop at
roughly the same rate as human technology.
(D) Extraterrestrial civilizations would inevitably
use technology for aggressive ends.
(E) Science is a more powerful form of human
knowledge than are art and literature.

18. The claim made in Passage 1 that a “consensus”
exists (lines 8-11) would most likely be interpreted
by the author of Passage 2 as
(A) evidence of compromise in the scientific
community
(B) an attack on SETI researchers
(C) support for Fermi’s analysis
(D) a revelation of an unexpected truth
(E) an oversimplification of a complex debate

19. The author of Passage 1 mentions Isaac Newton
(lines 37-40) in order to
(A) emphasize the rapid rate of technological
innovation
(B) acknowledge the impact of a profound thinker
(C) criticize the inflexibility of Newton’s
contemporaries
(D) speculate about Newton’s influence on current
research
(E) highlight the value of scientific curiosity

20. In lines 44-48, the author of Passage 2 indicates that
the Fermi Paradox has been

(A) thoroughly misunderstood
(B) surprisingly influential
(C) overwhelmingly perplexing
(D) intermittently popular
(E) frequently misquoted

21. How would Frank Drake (line 56, Passage 2) most
likely respond to the statement by the author of
Passage 1 about humans “colonizing other systems”
(line 26) ?
(A) The means to accomplish such a project may be
beyond our reach.
(B) Interstellar colonization is as morally problematic
as was colonization on Earth.
(C) We would do better to study indigenous life-forms
rather than search for extraterrestrial creatures.
(D) Humans would be wise to consider that they
themselves are subject to colonization.
(E) Funding for such an undertaking would pose
a thorny political issue for any government.

22. In line 57, “claims” most nearly means

(A) demands
(B) assertions
(C) rights
(D) territories
(E) compensations

23. In line 63, “radio communication” is cited as a

(A) complex interaction
(B) technological relic
(C) common occurrence
(D) practical alternative
(E) dramatic advance

24. Both the author of Passage 1 and Ben Zuckerman
(line 73, Passage 2) imply that researchers seeking life
on another planet should focus on which of the
following?

(A) Seasonal variations in color due to plant life
(B) Evidence of the most basic forms of life
(C) Signs of artificially created structures
(D) Signals that might be radio communications
(E) Changes in geological surface features

SECTION 7

1. Black Americans in Flight, a mural honoring several
aviation pioneers, also ------- the 1992 spaceflight of
astronaut Mae Jemison.
(A) discerns
(B) introduces
(C) approximates
(D) commemorates
(E) asserts

2. The new antifungal agent has such ------- uses, from
treating Dutch elm disease to rescuing water-damaged
works of art from molds, that it is considered one of
the more ------- antibiotics.

(A) disturbing . . explicit
(B) innovative . . precipitous
(C) mysterious . . recognized
(D) varied . . versatile
(E) similar . . discriminating

3. The child had a tendency toward aggressive behavior,
a ------- fighting rather than resolving differences
amicably.
(A) propensity for
(B) confusion about
(C) disregard of
(D) hostility toward
(E) compunction about

4. Physical exercise often has a ------- effect, releasing
emotional tension and refreshing the spirit.
(A) pejorative
(B) debilitating
(C) cathartic
(D) retentive
(E) tenacious

5. Because rap and hip-hop offer such ------- commentary
on contemporary issues, they are often said to be
sharp-edged musical genres.
(A) nebulous
(B) trenchant
(C) circumspect
(D) prosaic
(E) benign

PASSAGE
“Mechanical pencils rule,” my fifteen-year-old
grandniece, Genevieve, declared when I invited her to
be her generation’s voice on school supplies. “Nobody
sharpens anymore.” Then, continuing with a fashion
maven’s hyperbole and arbitrary imperatives, she gave
a passionate disquisition on types of clickers, new grips,
smaller lead sizes, and other niceties of pencil selection.
As she consigned the yellow-painted wooden pencil to
the wastebasket of history, I felt a rush of nostalgia for
the perfumed sharpener shavings of my youth.

6. In lines 4-5, the author refers to a “fashion maven’s”
tone primarily in order to
(A) imply that Genevieve has only a superficial
appreciation of mechanical pencils
(B) suggest that Genevieve is excessively concerned
about her clothing
(C) illustrate some of the exaggerated claims made
by mechanical pencil manufacturers
(D) emphasize the unpredictability of trends in consumer tastes
(E) indicate that Genevieve expresses her opinions
with authority and flair

7. The author mentions “sharpener shavings” (line 10)
in order to portray a mood of

(A) unrestrained joy
(B) sentimental reminiscence
(C) bitter disappointment
(D) cautious optimism
(E) dark foreboding

PASSAGE
Black holes are the most efficient engines of destruction
known to humanity. Their intense gravity is a one-way
ticket to oblivion, and material spiraling into them can
heat up to millions of degrees and glow brightly. Yet, they
are not all-powerful. Even supermassive black holes are
minuscule by cosmic standards. They typically account for
less than one percent of their galaxy’s mass. Accordingly,
astronomers long assumed that supermassive holes, let
alone their smaller cousins, would have little effect beyond
their immediate neighborhoods. So it has come as a surprise over the past decade that black hole activity is closely
intertwined with star formation occurring farther out in the
galaxy.

8. Which best describes the function of the statement
in lines 10-13 (“So it . . . galaxy”) ?
(A) It summarizes the points made in the first
four lines of the passage.
(B) It provides support for the argument asserted
in the preceding statement.
(C) It introduces a new view of information
presented earlier in the passage.
(D) It challenges recent scientific findings.
(E) It offers examples to support a theory.

9. Which of the following most resembles the relationship
between “black hole activity” and “star formation”
(lines 11-12) as described in the passage?
(A) A volcanic eruption on one continent results
in higher rainfall totals on another continent.
(B) Industrial emissions in one region lead to an
increase in airborne pollutants in adjacent
regions.
(C) A drought in a wilderness area causes a
significant loss of vegetation in that area.
(D) Decreased oil production in one country results
in higher gas prices in oil-dependent countries.
(E) Overfishing in a gulf leads to an increase in
the population of smaller aquatic organisms.

PASSAGE
PREFACE
The following passage is an excerpt from a 1909 novel.
Georgia, the main character, is a reporter in an otherwise
all-male newsroom.

Georgia was to be married. It was the week before
Christmas, and on the last day of the year she would
become Mrs. Joseph Tank. She had told Joe that if
they were to be married at all they might as well get it
over with this year, and still there was no need of being
married any earlier in the year than was necessary. She
assured him that she married him simply because she was
tired of having paper bags waved before her eyes every-
where she went and she thought if she were once officially
associated with him people would not flaunt his idiosyn-
crasies at her that way. And then Ernestine, her best friend,
approved of getting married, and Ernestine’s ideas were
usually good. To all of which Joe responded that she
certainly had a splendid head to figure it out that way.
Joe said that to his mind reasons for doing things weren’t
very important anyhow; it was doing them that counted.
Yesterday had been her last day on the paper. She had
felt queer about that thing of taking her last assignment,
though it was hard to reach just the proper state, for the
last story related to pork-packers, and pork-packing is
not a setting favorable to sentimental regrets. It was just
like the newspaper business not even to allow one a little
sentimental harrowing over one’s exodus from it. But the
time for gentle melancholy came later on when she was
sorting her things at her desk just before leaving, and
was wondering what girl would have that old desk— if
they cared to risk another girl, and whether the other poor
girl would slave through the years she should have been
frivolous, only to have some man step in at the end and
induce her to surrender the things she had gained through
sacrifice and toil.
As she wrote a final letter on her typewriter— she did
hate letting the old machine go— Georgia did considerable
philosophizing about the irony of working for things only
to the end of giving them up. She had waded through snow-
drifts and been drenched in pouring rains, she had been
frozen with the cold and prostrated with the heat, she had
been blown about by Chicago wind until it was strange
there was any of her left in one piece, she had had front
doors— yes, and back doors too— slammed in her face,
she had been the butt of the alleged wit of menials and
hirelings, she had been patronized by vapid women as
the poor girl who must make her living some way, she
had been roasted by—but never mind— she had had
a beat* or two! And now she was to wind it all up by
marrying Joseph Tank, who had made a great deal of
money out of the manufacture of paper bags. This from
her—who had always believed she would end her days
in New York, or perhaps write a realistic novel exposing
some mighty evil!

* the area regularly covered by a reporter

10. Based on information presented in the passage, which
best describes what Georgia was “tired of ” (line 8) ?
(A) Being forced to earn a living
(B) Being teased about Joseph Tank
(C) Being considered a hack writer by some
of her colleagues
(D) Being betrayed by her supposed friends
(E) Being the only woman in the newsroom

11. The second paragraph suggests that Georgia believes
the “proper state” (line 19) would be one of

(A) excitement
(B) wistfulness
(C) amusement
(D) annoyance
(E) relief

12. In line 27, “poor” most nearly means

(A) pitiable
(B) indigent
(C) inferior
(D) humble
(E) petty

13. Which most resembles the “irony” mentioned
in line 34 ?
(A) A worker moving to a distant state to take
a job, only to be fired without warning
(B) An executive making an important decision,
only to regret it later
(C) An athlete earning a starting position on
a good team, only to quit in midseason
(D) A student studying for a major exam, only
to learn that it has been postponed
(E) A person purchasing an expensive umbrella,
only to lose it on the first rainy day

14. The description in lines 35-45 (“She . . . two!”)
primarily serves to
(A) suggest that Georgia envied those women
who did not have to work
(B) imply that Georgia would be unlikely ever
to consider working as a reporter again
(C) indicate the role that weather plays in the
everyday life of a reporter
(D) exaggerate Georgia’s reluctance to relinquish
her job
(E) show the adversities Georgia had to overcome
as a reporter

15. In context, the phrase “This from her” (lines 47-48)
helps to suggest that a

(A) specific feeling is quite heartfelt
(B) stated viewpoint is highly personal
(C) certain decision is out of character
(D) particular behavior is extremely upsetting
(E) given attitude is unsurprising

Questions 16-24 are based on the following passage.
The following passage is adapted from a book about
television and popular culture.

Ridiculing television, and warning about its inherent
evils, is nothing new. It has been that way since the
medium was invented, and television hasn’t exactly
been lavished with respect as the decades have passed.
I suspect, though, that a lot of the fear and loathing
directed at television comes out of a time-honored,
reflexive overreaction to the dominant medium of the
moment. For the past several decades, television has
been blamed for corrupting our youth and exciting
our adults, distorting reality, and basically being a
big, perhaps dangerous, waste of time. Before TV,
radio and film were accused of the same things. And
long before that— in fact, some 2,500 years earlier —
philosophers were arguing that poetry and drama
should be excluded from any ideal city on much the
same grounds.
In Book 10 of the Republic, Plato (428-348 B.C.)
attacks epic poet Homer (c. 850 B.C.) and the trage-
dians on several grounds, all of which have a familiar
ring. “Their productions are appearances and not realities,”
he gripes. “Drawing, and in fact all imitation . . . [is] quite
removed from the truth.” The audience, as well as the art
form, troubled Plato, whose remarks are colored by an
implied disdain for the popularity of public performances.
The “common people,” as Plato so charitably calls them,
are drawn to “peevish and diverse” characters— such as
Odysseus and other heroes in the Iliad and the Odyssey—
who (to Plato, anyway) engage in such questionable
displays of emotion as “spinning out a long melancholy
lamentation” or “disfiguring themselves in grief.” To
Plato, baring such intimate sorrows is not to be condoned.
(Clearly, he would have given thumbs down to the central
characters of Shakespeare’s Hamlet and Macbeth.) “If you
receive the pleasure-seasoned Muse1 of song and epic,”
Plato warns, “pleasure and pain will be kings in your city,
instead of law.” Finally, Plato sums up his anti-arts argu-
ment with the cold, sweeping pronouncement that “poetry
is not to be taken seriously.”
One academic who has studied and written extensively
about both Plato and television suggests that Plato, rather
than being anti-arts, was merely an elitist. Plato wanted
to ban poetry readings and live theater, the argument
goes, because, being free and accessible and raucous and
extremely popular, they were the mass entertainment
of that era. “If, instead of ‘tragedy’ and ‘poetry,’ and
‘Homer’ and ‘Aeschylus,’2 you read ‘mass entertainment’
or ‘popular media,’ you’ll recognize Plato’s arguments as
the ancestor of all the reasons we have today for being
suspicious of television.”
To wit: poetry, by which Plato means drama, confuses
us between appearance and reality. The action it presents
is too extreme and violent. Most important, it’s a corrupt-
ing influence, perverting its audience by bombarding it
with inferior characters and vulgar subjects— and con-
stituting, in Plato’s own words, “a harm to the mind of
its audience.”
If Plato’s Republic had become reality, it would have
been a republic with a lot of empty libraries, theaters, and
museums—if, indeed, those repositories of the arts would
have survived at all. Plato’s personal utopia never came to
pass— but throughout the centuries, wherever and when-
ever a new medium of artistic expression attracted a lot
of people, someone has been ready, waiting, and eager to
attack its content and fear its impact.
1 The Muses inspired poetry and song in Greek mythology.
2 Aeschylus (525-456 B.C.) was a Greek tragic dramatist.

16. The opening paragraph primarily serves to
(A) criticize the way television distorts the truth
(B) examine the evolution of television as a medium
(C) place contemporary criticism of television in a
historical context
(D) directly compare television and drama as art
forms
(E) explain why television, radio, and drama appeal
to the masses

17. Which of the following television shows would
be LEAST vulnerable to the criticism expressed
in lines 8-11 (“For . . . time”) ?
(A) A melodrama in which police detectives attempt
to solve crimes
(B) A soap opera depicting interpersonal conflicts in
a fictional law firm
(C) A comedy whose primary characters are
supernatural
(D) A documentary on the state of education in
the nation
(E) A talk show that encourages people to confront
each other in front of a studio audience

18. In line 26, “drawn” most nearly means

(A) brought
(B) depicted
(C) selected
(D) attracted
(E) shaped

19. Which of the following best characterizes Plato’s view
of the heroes mentioned in line 27 ?

(A) Admiration
(B) Curiosity
(C) Distrust
(D) Disappointment
(E) Contempt


20. The “academic” (line 39) indicates that Plato was
primarily characterized by his

(A) insight
(B) artistry
(C) cynicism
(D) irreverence
(E) snobbishness

21. The primary purpose of the statements in lines 39-45
(“One . . . that era”) is to
(A) provide an interpretation of a viewpoint
described in the previous paragraph
(B) show how Plato’s view of politics should
be understood in today’s terms
(C) put divergent interpretations of Plato into
historical perspective
(D) account for the appeal of Plato’s writings
(E) signal a digression in the passage

22. The fourth paragraph (lines 50-56) indicates that
Plato’s principal objection to “poetry” (line 50)
was its

(A) confusing language
(B) widespread popularity
(C) depiction of turbulent events
(D) influence on people’s morals
(E) misrepresentation of historical figures

23. The author of the passage would probably agree with
which of the following statements about the “utopia”
referred to in line 60 ?

(A) It would have encouraged new artistic ventures.
(B) It would have stifled human creativity.
(C) It is an ideal that we should continue to work
towards.
(D) It may come to pass because of the popularity
of television.
(E) It was a notion rejected by Greek philosophers.

24. The comment about “a new medium of artistic
expression” (line 62) primarily suggests that
(A) the author holds a fatalistic view of the
future for artistic expression
(B) certain societies in the past have been
slow to accept new art forms
(C) people often disguise their true feelings
when it comes to art
(D) the popular response to a new art form
will often overcome opposition to it
(E) a popular new art form will always
receive some form of negative response

STOP

If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this section only.
Do not turn to any other section in the test.

SECTION 8

1. As a child, Mary ------- her stringent upbringing;
however, as she grew older she began to appreciate
her grandmother’s strict -------.

(A) tolerated . . autonomy
(B) despised . . discipline
(C) embraced . . authority
(D) disavowed . . abstinence
(E) loathed . . liberality

2. His mouth stinging and burning, Virgil hurried to the
kitchen for water to wash away the dish’s ------- taste.
(A) earthy
(B) exotic
(C) cloying
(D) acrid
(E) succulent

	

3. Since other seabirds customarily nest in colonies on
ocean cliffs and islands, the marbled murrelet’s ------nesting in forests many miles from the sea must be
considered -------.

(A) ambivalence about . . hypothetical
(B) indifference to . . bold
(C) insistence upon . . evident
(D) aversion to . . dangerous
(E) predilection for . . atypical

4. The cause of Mozart’s ------- is a long-standing
medical -------: over the years, physicians have
suggested more than 100 possibilities, including
poisoning, malnutrition, kidney disease, and
heart failure.

(A) mortality . . phenomenon
(B) bereavement . . controversy
(C) genius . . enigma
(D) demise . . mystery
(E) death . . trial

5. At first the children were -------, but as the morning
progressed they began to laugh and talk eagerly.
(A) ostentatious
(B) myopic
(C) solicitous
(D) puerile
(E) reticent

6. Oren missed the play’s overarching significance,
focusing instead on details so minor that they would
best be described as -------.
(A) pragmatic
(B) indelible
(C) moribund
(D) picayune
(E) impervious

PASSAGE
PREFACE
The following passage is from a 1979 essay by a Native
American writer.


An understanding of any national literature depends
very much on an awareness of the larger cultural context.
Without some knowledge of language, of history, of
inflection, of the position of the storyteller within the
group, without a hint of the social roles played by males
and females in the culture, without a sense of the society’s
humor or priorities —without such knowledge, how can
we, as reader or listener, penetrate to the core of meaning
in an expression of art?
The difficulty of gaining access to the literature of a
different culture may be illustrated by an exemplary folk-
tale (in translation) from the Tanaina (Athabaskan) culture
of south-central Alaska. It would typically be told to a
general audience within the society, including the full range
of ages from young children to grandparents; it would be
recounted with gesticulation and exaggeration by a perfor-
mance specialist. It would be expected to have different
meanings to the various categories of listeners— instructive,
entertaining, reinforcing, or all three. Here is a brief version
of the story:
“Once upon a time there was a porcupine woman who
decided to do some hunting on the far side of the river. She
went to the bank, where she met a beaver.
‘Hello,’ she said to him. ‘I need to do some hunting over
there. Will you ride me across on your back?’
‘I’d be glad to,’ replied the beaver. ‘Hop on.’
So the porcupine woman climbed on his back, and he
started swimming for the other side. When he had almost
made it, the porcupine woman said, ‘Oh my! I’ve forgotten
to bring my sack. I’ll need to go back to the other bank and
get it.’
‘All right,’ said the beaver, and swam back. He was
panting while the porcupine woman went to get her sack.
‘Okay,’ she said. ‘Let’s go.’ So they started across
again. The beaver was swimming much more slowly. When
they had practically reached the other side, she said, ‘Oh
my! I’ve forgotten to bring my needle. We’ll have to go
back and get it.’
This time the beaver didn’t say anything— he didn’t
have enough breath! But he turned around and pulled them
back to the shore and nearly passed out while she got her
needle.
‘Hurry up, now,’ the porcupine woman said as she
climbed back on his back. He could hardly keep his nose
above water, but he had almost made it to the far bank
again when she said, ‘Oh my! I’ve forgotten my staff.
We’ll have to . . . .’
Before she had finished her sentence the beaver had
flipped over in the water and dragged himself onto the
bank, where he lay half dead. The porcupine woman
managed to make the shore too, and climbed up onto a bear
path. When she had caught her breath, she turned on the
beaver and quilled him to death.”
The Tanaina live in an environment that could euphe-
mistically be described as “difficult.” Survival, especially
in the wild, is always precarious. Further, they were, in the
precontact period, a nonliterate people. Oral communica-
tion was therefore the method of cultural transmission,
legal understanding, and meaningful communication. It is
also necessary to know that a “staff,” as mentioned in the
story, functions as both a walking stick and a weapon, and
that in the Tanaina symbol system, porcupines were
supposed to be rather ponderous, dull-witted creatures, and
beavers were thought to be energetic and industrious but
overly spontaneous and erratic.
For the reader armed with these data, the story becomes
more accessible as a lesson in contract law, with several
additional minor themes. A culturally attuned listener
would notice, for instance, that when the porcupine woman
proposed passage to the beaver, he agreed without any
stipulations or clarifications of the terms. He gave a
basically open-ended agreement—made a contract— and
hence the porcupine woman was perfectly within her rights
both in demanding that he return three times and in quilling
him to death when he reneged.
The story is not, however, without its moral for the por-
cupine women of this world. Her stated aim is to go
hunting, and yet she sets out without the three essentials of
that endeavor: a sack in which to carry home her game, a
needle with which to sew up the intestines, and, most
important, an implement with which to hunt and defend
herself. True, she had an open-ended contract, but where
does she wind up at the conclusion of the story? Sitting,
exhausted, quills used up, weaponless, and not only on the
wrong side of the river from her home but on a bear path!
The hunter is about to become the hunted, and all because
of her own improvidence.

7. In the opening paragraph, the author assumes that the
“meaning” (line 8) is

(A) culturally determined
(B) intensely personal
(C) essentially moralistic
(D) permanently inscrutable
(E) uniquely artistic

8. In the context of the passage, which “expression of art”
(line 9) would be the most difficult to interpret?
(A) A contemporary play written by a prolific playwright
(B) A fable from a nonliterate society with which
anthropologists are very familiar
(C) A single text produced by a previously unknown
society
(D) A sitcom from the early days of television
(E) A single myth from an ancient culture with a welldocumented mythological structure

9. How does the author respond to the question posed in
lines 3-9 ?
(A) By proposing an innovative strategy
(B) By confirming the futility of such analysis
(C) By describing a personal experience with the
problem
(D) By illustrating his point within a particular context
(E) By documenting a traditional approach to the
problem

10. The author discusses Tanaina culture from the
perspective of

(A) a concerned parent
(B) a bewildered visitor
(C) a performance artist
(D) an informed outsider
(E) an indignant reader

11. The sentence in which “difficult” appears (lines 54-55)
indicates that the author considers the word to be

(A) an exaggeration
(B) an estimate
(C) an understatement
(D) a contradiction
(E) a preconception

12. In relation to the passage, the statements in lines 59-65
serve a function most similar to which of the following
items?

(A) A menu in a restaurant
(B) The key or legend to a map
(C) A department store directory
(D) The outline of a term paper
(E) An illustration of a fairytale

13. The author’s analysis of the folktale offers which
insight into Tanaina beliefs?
(A) A fanciful story is most suitable for an audience
of children.
(B) A verbal exchange can establish a binding
contract.
(C) A person who behaves impulsively is most often
sincere.
(D) A shared task should be divided fairly between
two people.
(E) A painstaking plan may nonetheless fail to
anticipate all problems.

14. The “porcupine women of this world” (lines 76-77) are
best described as people who

(A) plan inadequately for their own needs
(B) postpone necessary work in favor of leisure
(C) depend heavily upon help from their close friends
(D) return repeatedly to their favorite places
(E) flee quickly from any laborious task

15. The final paragraph (lines 76-87) suggests that the bear
path mentioned in lines 51-52 is significant because it
(A) foreshadows the arrival of a benevolent character
from Tanaina folklore
(B) suggests an alarming alternative to crossing
the river
(C) marks the boundary of the beaver’s natural
surroundings
(D) explains the porcupine woman’s fear of
unfamiliar territory
(E) poses a new peril for the porcupine woman

16. In lines 83-87, the description of the porcupine woman
emphasizes the discrepancy between her

(A) social position and her private feelings
(B) physical wealth and her moral poverty
(C) hostile action and her ultimate gratitude
(D) original goal and her actual situation
(E) grandiose ambition and her real needs

17. As a commentary on legal relations, this folktale is best
described as

(A) an example of traditional practices
(B) an outline for social behavior
(C) a warning about ill-conceived assent
(D) a criticism of obsolete customs
(E) a parody of actual situations

18. The author’s attitude toward the Tanaina folktale is
best described as

(A) excitement at an unexpected discovery
(B) admiration of the storyteller’s performance
(C) appreciation of the folktale as a means of communicating values
(D) enthusiasm for the Tanaina culture’s concept of
legality
(E) enjoyment of the comical aspects of the folktale

19. Which statement is most consistent with the author’s
argument?
(A) Translating a literary text requires formal linguistic training.
(B) Tales transmitted by a nonliterate society elude
transcription in later eras.
(C) Listening to a skilled storyteller is more instructive than entertaining.
(D) Simple enjoyment of a tale is incompatible with
scholarly analysis.
(E) To read a text is not necessarily to understand it.