SECTION 3

1. Many private universities depend heavily on -------, the
wealthy individuals who support them with gifts and
bequests.
(A) instructors
(B) administrators
(C) monitors
(D) accountants
(E) benefactors

2. One of the characters in Milton Murayama’s novel
is considered ------- because he deliberately defies
an oppressive hierarchical society.
(A) rebellious
(B) impulsive
(C) artistic
(D) industrious
(E) tyrannical

3. Nightjars possess a camouflage perhaps unparalleled
in the bird world: by day they roost hidden in shady
woods, so ------- with their surroundings that they are
nearly impossible to -------.

(A) vexed . . dislodge
(B) blended . . discern
(C) harmonized . . interrupt
(D) impatient . . distinguish
(E) integrated . . classify

4. Many economists believe that since resources are
scarce and since human desires cannot all be -------,
a method of ------- is needed.

(A) indulged . . apportionment
(B) verified . . distribution
(C) usurped . . expropriation
(D) expressed . . reparation
(E) anticipated . . advertising

5. The range of colors that homeowners could use on the
exterior of their houses was ------- by the community’s
stringent rules regarding upkeep of property.
(A) circumscribed
(B) bolstered
(C) embellished
(D) insinuated
(E) cultivated

PASSAGE
Passage 1
I know what your e-mail in-box looks like, and it
isn’t pretty: a babble of come-ons and lies from hucksters
and con artists. To find your real e-mail, you must wade
through the torrent of fraud and obscenity known politely
as “unsolicited bulk e-mail” and colloquially as “spam.”
In a perverse tribute to the power of the online revolution,
we are all suddenly getting the same mail: easy weight
loss, get-rich-quick schemes, etc. The crush of these mes-
sages is now numbered in billions per day. “It’s becoming
a major systems and engineering and network problem,”
says one e-mail expert. “Spammers are gaining control of
the Internet.”
Passage 2
Many people who hate spam assume that it is protected
as free speech. Not necessarily so. The United States
Supreme Court has previously ruled that individuals
may preserve a threshold of privacy. “Nothing in the
Constitution compels us to listen to or view any unwanted
communication, whatever its merit,” wrote Chief Justice
Warren Burger in a 1970 decision. “We therefore categori-
cally reject the argument that a vendor has a right to send
unwanted material into the home of another.” With regard
to a seemingly similar problem, the Telephone Consumer
Protection Act of 1991 made it illegal in the United States
to send unsolicited faxes; why not extend the act to include
unsolicited bulk e-mail?

6. The primary purpose of Passage 1 is to

(A) make a comparison
(B) dispute a hypothesis
(C) settle a controversy
(D) justify a distinction
(E) highlight a concern

7. The primary purpose of Passage 2 is to

(A) confirm a widely held belief
(B) discuss the inadequacies of a ruling
(C) defend a controversial technology
(D) analyze a widespread social problem
(E) lay the foundation for a course of action

8. What would be the most likely reaction by the author
of Passage 1 to the argument cited in lines 16-21 of
Passage 2 (“Nothing . . . another”) ?
(A) Surprise at the assumption that freedom of speech
is indispensable to democracy
(B) Dismay at the Supreme Court’s vigorous defense
of vendors’ rights
(C) Hope that the same reasoning would be applied
to all unsolicited e-mail
(D) Concern for the plight of mass marketers facing
substantial economic losses
(E) Appreciation for the political complexity of
the debate about spam
9. Unlike the author of Passage 1, the author of Passage 2

(A) criticizes a practice
(B) offers an example
(C) proposes a solution
(D) states an opinion
(E) quotes an expert

PASSAGE
PREFACE
The following passage is adapted from a novel set in
the early twentieth century. Mr. Beebe, a clergyman, is
speaking with Cecil Vyse about a mutual acquaintance,
Lucy Honeychurch. Miss Honeychurch has recently
returned from a journey with her older cousin and
chaperone, Miss Bartlett.

“Lucy Honeychurch has no faults,” said Cecil,
with grave sincerity.
“I quite agree. At present she has none.”
“At present?”
“I’m not cynical. I’m only thinking of my pet theory
about Miss Honeychurch. Does it seem reasonable that
she should play piano so wonderfully, and live so quietly?
I suspect that someday she shall be wonderful in both.
The water-tight compartments in her will break down,
and music and life will mingle. Then we shall have her
heroically good, heroically bad —too heroic, perhaps,
to be good or bad.”
Cecil found his companion interesting.
“And at present you think her not wonderful as far
as life goes?”
“Well, I must say I’ve only seen her at Tunbridge
Wells, where she was not wonderful, and at Florence.
She wasn’t wonderful in Florence either, but I kept
on expecting that she would be.”
“In what way?”
Conversation had become agreeable to them, and
they were pacing up and down the terrace.
“I could as easily tell you what tune she’ll play next.
There was simply the sense that she found wings and
meant to use them. I can show you a beautiful picture
in my diary. Miss Honeychurch as a kite, Miss Bartlett
holding the string. Picture number two: the string breaks.”
The sketch was in his diary, but it had been made after-
wards, when he viewed things artistically. At the time he
had given surreptitious tugs to the string himself.
“But the string never broke?”
“No. I mightn’t have seen Miss Honeychurch rise,
but I should certainly have heard Miss Bartlett fall.”
“It has broken now,” said the young man in low,
vibrating tones.
Immediately he realized that of all the conceited,
ludicrous, contemptible ways of announcing an engage-
ment this was the worst. He cursed his love of metaphor;
had he suggested that he was a star and that Lucy was
soaring up to reach him?
“Broken? What do you mean?”
“I meant,” Cecil said stiffly, “that she is going
to marry me.”
The clergyman was conscious of some bitter
disappointment which he could not keep out of his
voice.

“I am sorry; I must apologize. I had no idea you
were intimate with her, or I should never have talked
in this flippant, superficial way. You ought to have
stopped me.” And down in the garden he saw Lucy
herself; yes, he was disappointed.
Cecil, who naturally preferred congratulations
to apologies, drew down the corner of his mouth. Was
this the reaction his action would get from the whole
world? Of course, he despised the world as a whole;
every thoughtful man should; it is almost a test of
refinement.
“I’m sorry I have given you a shock,” he said
dryly. “I fear that Lucy’s choice does not meet with
your approval.”

10. Cecil’s remark in line 1 (“Lucy . . . faults”) is made
in a tone of

(A) great conviction
(B) studied neutrality
(C) playful irony
(D) genuine surprise
(E) weary cynicism

11. Mr. Beebe asks the question in lines 6-7 (“Does . . .
quietly”) primarily in order to

(A) raise an urgent concern
(B) anticipate a possible objection
(C) challenge a widely accepted theory
(D) note an apparent inconsistency
(E) criticize a popular pastime

12. Mr. Beebe’s statement, “The water-tight . . . bad”
(lines 9-11), suggests that Lucy will
(A) ultimately become a famous and respected
musician
(B) eventually play music in a less disciplined
fashion
(C) one day begin to live with great passion
(D) soon regret an impetuous decision
(E) someday marry a man who will be the
cause of her undoing

13. In line 24, “sense” most nearly means

(A) definition
(B) intelligence
(C) plausibility
(D) consensus
(E) impression

14. For Mr. Beebe, “Picture number two” (line 27)
represents

(A) a misleading occurrence
(B) a dangerous gamble
(C) an unlikely development
(D) an anticipated outcome
(E) an avoidable difficulty

15. Ultimately, Cecil views his remark in line 34
(“It . . . now”) as

(A) singularly poetic
(B) particularly memorable
(C) embarrassingly inapt
(D) excessively critical
(E) regrettably underhanded

16. The question in lines 39-40 (“had . . . him ”) suggests
that Cecil fears that Mr. Beebe will

(A) detect the lack of originality in his thinking
(B) consider him to be vain
(C) tell Lucy of his inappropriate remark
(D) distrust him as a confidant
(E) attempt to block his engagement to Lucy

PASSAGE
PREFACE
The following passage is adapted from a book published in
1999.

Calling it a cover-up would be far too dramatic. But for
more than half a century—even in the midst of some of
the greatest scientific achievements in history—physicists
have been quietly aware of a dark cloud looming on a
distant horizon. The problem is this: There are two
foundational pillars upon which modern physics rests.
One is general relativity, which provides a theoretical
framework for understanding the universe on the largest
of scales: stars, galaxies, clusters of galaxies, and beyond
to the immense expanse of the universe itself. The other
is quantum mechanics, which provides a theoretical
framework for understanding the universe on the small-
est of scales: molecules, atoms, and all the way down to
subatomic particles like electrons and quarks. Through
years of research, physicists have experimentally confirmed
to almost unimaginable accuracy virtually all predictions
made by each of these theories. But these same theoretical
tools inexorably lead to another disturbing conclusion:
As they are currently formulated, general relativity and
quantum mechanics cannot both be right. The two theories
underlying the tremendous progress of physics during
the last hundred years—progress that has explained the
expansion of the heavens and the fundamental structure
of matter— are mutually incompatible.
If you have not heard previously about this ferocious
antagonism, you may be wondering why. The answer is
not hard to come by. In all but the most extreme situations,
physicists study things that are either small and light (like
atoms and their constituents) or things that are huge and
heavy (like stars and galaxies), but not both. This means
that they need use only quantum mechanics or only general
relativity and can, with a furtive glance, shrug off the bark-
ing admonition of the other. For 50 years this approach
has not been quite as blissful as ignorance, but it has been
pretty close.
But the universe can be extreme. In the central depths of
a black hole, an enormous mass is crushed to a minuscule
size. According to the big bang theory, the whole of the
universe erupted from a microscopic nugget whose size
makes a grain of sand look colossal. These are realms that
are tiny and yet incredibly massive, therefore requiring
that both quantum mechanics and general relativity simul-
taneously be brought to bear. The equations of general
relativity and quantum mechanics, when combined, begin
to shake, rattle, and gush with steam like a decrepit auto-
mobile. Put less figuratively, well-posed physical questions
elicit nonsensical answers from the unhappy amalgam of
these two theories. Even if you are willing to keep the
deep interior of a black hole and the beginning of the
universe shrouded in mystery, you can’t help feeling that
the hostility between quantum mechanics and general
relativity cries out for a deeper level of understanding.
Can it really be that the universe at its most fundamental
level is divided, requiring one set of laws when things are
large and a different, incompatible set when things are
small?
Superstring theory, a young upstart compared with the
venerable edifices of quantum mechanics and general
relativity, answers with a resounding no. Intense research
over the past decade by physicists and mathematicians
around the world has revealed that this new approach to
describing matter at its most fundamental level resolves
the tension between general relativity and quantum
mechanics. In fact, superstring theory shows more:
within this new framework, general relativity and
quantum mechanics require one another for the theory
to make sense. According to superstring theory, the
marriage of the laws of the large and the small is not
only happy but inevitable. Superstring theory has the
potential to show that all of the wondrous happenings
in the universe—from the frantic dance of subatomic
quarks to the stately waltz of orbiting binary stars—are
reflections of one grand physical principle, one master
equation.

17. The “dark cloud” mentioned in line 4 refers to an

(A) atypical diagnosis
(B) unsupported hypothesis
(C) unknown threat
(D) evil influence
(E) important contradiction

18. Which pairing best represents the different models
of the universe presented in lines 7-14 ?

(A) Big and little
(B) Old and new
(C) Complex and simple
(D) Verified and undocumented
(E) Theoretical and practical

19. The author’s use of italics in line 20 serves primarily to

(A) draw attention to a commonly known hypothesis
(B) stress a speculative aspect of two theories
(C) support a difficult claim
(D) underscore a surprising point
(E) emphasize an area of agreement


20. The author uses the “automobile” (lines 45-46) to
represent equations that

(A) demand a professional’s attention
(B) are intrinsically unreliable
(C) do not work together effectively
(D) can be easily adjusted if necessary
(E) are based on dated mathematics

21. Which of the following, if available, would best
refute the author’s assertion about the “young upstart”
(line 57) ?

(A) Evidence that certain kinds of particles in nature
exceed the speed of light
(B) Confirmation of conditions that existed in the
earliest stages of the big bang
(C) Speculation that the deep interior of a black hole
is not as dense as scientists have believed
(D) Mathematical formulas that link general relativity
and quantum mechanics in the same realm
(E) Proof that the laws governing the universe depend
on the size of the system being studied


22. The primary reason described for the usefulness of the
theory mentioned in line 57 is its ability to

(A) explain new phenomena
(B) replace the theory of general relativity
(C) reinforce the predictions of quantum mechanics
(D) indicate where other theories are inapplicable
(E) reconcile two seemingly contradictory theories

23. Those who hold the “conclusion” referred to in line 18
would most likely believe that the “marriage” (line 68)
was an

(A) inevitable result of their research
(B) unjustifiable elevation of their hypotheses
(C) inadvisable use of research funds
(D) unfortunate consequence
(E) impossible outcome

24. The author uses dance imagery in lines 71-72 in order to


(A) suggest a similarity between the study of science
and the study of dance
(B) highlight the extremes found in the physical
world
(C) emphasize the different ways that binary stars
move
(D) illustrate the intricacy of the subatomic world
of quarks
(E) suggest the cohesive nature of both science and
dance


If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this section only.
Do not turn to any other section in the test.

SAT Preparation Booklet

57



SECTION 7

1. Years of ------- lifting of heavy furniture had left him
too ------- to be able to stand erect for long periods of
time.

(A) profitable . . dumbfounded
(B) generous . . distracted
(C) onerous . . hesitant
(D) strenuous . . debilitated
(E) unstinting . . eminent

2. Canadian Lynn Johnston was named Cartoonist of
the Year in 1985, the first woman to be so -------.
(A) inspired
(B) entrusted
(C) honored
(D) employed
(E) refined

3. Because the photographer believed that wild animals
should be ------- only in their various natural
surroundings, she ------- often in her career.

(A) depicted . . traveled
(B) displayed . . spoke
(C) captured . . protested
(D) domesticated . . roamed
(E) represented . . publicized

4. Folk painter Grandma Moses has become such
an enduring icon that many consider her ------ of America.
(A) an innovator
(B) an emblem
(C) a successor
(D) a detractor
(E) a lobbyist

5. Whether substances are medicines or poisons often
depends on dosage, for substances that are ------- in
small doses can be ------- in large.

(A) useless . . effective
(B) mild . . benign
(C) curative . . toxic
(D) harmful . . fatal
(E) beneficial . . miraculous

6. Critics dismissed the engineer’s seemingly creative
design as being -------, that is, underdeveloped and
lacking in sophistication.
(A) defunct
(B) unorthodox
(C) simplistic
(D) erroneous
(E) ambiguous

7. The professor commented to other faculty members that
Sheila seemed temperamentally suited to the study of
logic, given her ------- for ------- intricate arguments.

(A) sympathy . . influencing
(B) penchant . . evading
(C) disregard . . unhinging
(D) contempt . . following
(E) bent . . analyzing

8. While traveling near the Sun, the comet Hale-Bopp
produced a ------- amount of dust, much more than the
comets Halley or Hyakutake.
(A) voracious
(B) disposable
(C) redundant
(D) superficial
(E) prodigious

PASSAGE
Newspaper editor and political commentator Henry
Louis Mencken was a force of nature, brushing aside
all objects animal and mineral in his headlong rush
to the publicity that surely awaited him. He seized
each day, shook it to within an inch of its life, and
then gaily went on to the next. No matter where his
writing appeared, it was quoted widely, his pungently
outspoken opinions debated hotly. Nobody else could
make so many people so angry, or make so many others
laugh so hard.

9. In lines 4-5, the words “seized” and “shook” help
establish which aspect of Mencken’s personality?

(A) His code of honor
(B) His sense of humor
(C) His vindictiveness
(D) His intensity
(E) His petulance

10. The public response described in lines 6-8 most
strongly suggests that Mencken’s writings were

(A) authoritative
(B) controversial
(C) arrogant
(D) informal
(E) frivolous

PASSAGE
The ability to see the situation as your opponents see it,
as difficult as it may be, is one of the most important skills
that you can possess as a negotiator. You must know more
than simply that they see things differently. It is not
enough to study them like beetles under a microscope;
you need to know what it feels like to be a beetle. To
accomplish this you should be prepared to withhold
judgment as you “try on” their views. Your opponents
may well believe that their views are right as strongly
as you believe yours are.

11. The reference to beetles in lines 5-6 serves
to suggest that
(A) people need to be more attuned to their
surroundings
(B) effective negotiation is more of a science
than an art
(C) people can be made to do what they
would prefer not to do
(D) effective negotiation requires identifying with a different viewpoint
(E) people feel uncomfortable when their
actions are under scrutiny

12. The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) persuade people to defend their positions
on critical issues
(B) indicate a specific ability that is useful
in negotiation
(C) encourage people to be more accepting
of others
(D) argue that few people are fit for the
demands of negotiation
(E) suggest that negotiators should always
seek consensus

PASSAGE
PREFEACE
Passage 1 is from a 2003 book that examines the famous
“I Have a Dream” speech delivered by Martin Luther
King, Jr. at the historic March on Washington in August
1963. Passage 2 is from a 2000 biography of Martin Luther
King, Jr. written by an African American scholar.

Passage 1

The ability of the “I Have a Dream” speech to high-
light King’s early career at the expense of his later career
accounts for the tone of impatience and betrayal that often
appears when modern-day supporters of King’s agenda talk
about the speech. Former Georgia state legislator Julian
Bond said in 1986 that commemorations of King seemed to
“focus almost entirely on Martin Luther King the dreamer,
not on Martin King the antiwar activist, not on Martin King
the challenger of the economic order, not on Martin King
the opponent of apartheid, not on the complete Martin
Luther King.” One King scholar has proposed a ten-year
moratorium on reading or listening to the “I Have a Dream”
speech, in the hopes that America will then discover the
rest of King’s legacy.
This proposal effectively concedes that King’s mag-
nificent address cannot be recovered from the misuse
and overquotation it has suffered since his death. But
it is not clear that this is so. Even now, upon hearing the
speech, one is struck by the many forms of King’s genius.
Many people can still remember the first time they heard
“I Have a Dream,” and they tend to speak of that memory
with the reverence reserved for a religious experience. At
the very least, reflecting on the “I Have a Dream” speech
should be an opportunity to be grateful for the astonishing
transformation of America that the freedom movement
wrought. In just under a decade, the civil rights move-
ment brought down a system of segregation that stood
essentially unaltered since Reconstruction. King’s dreams
of an America free from racial discrimination are still some
distance away, but it is astounding how far the nation has
come since that hot August day in 1963. Segregation in
the South has been dismantled; there are no longer
“Whites Only” signs; segregationist governors do not
try to prevent Black children from entering public schools.
Toward the end of his life, King preached a sermon entitled
“Ingratitude,” in which he called ingratitude “one of the
greatest of all sins,” because the sinner “fail[s] to realize
his dependence on others.” The annual Martin Luther King
holiday is properly a day of national thanksgiving, a time
for the nation to recognize the immense debt it owes to
King and the thousands of heroes of the civil rights
movement for saving the soul of America.

Passage 2

Martin Luther King was at his best when he was
willing to reshape the wisdom of many of his intellec-
tual predecessors. He ingeniously harnessed their ideas
to his views to advocate sweeping social change. He
believed that his early views on race failed to challenge
America fundamentally. He later confessed that he had
underestimated how deeply entrenched racism was in
America. If Black Americans could not depend on good-
will to create social change, they had to provoke social
change through bigger efforts at nonviolent direct action.
This meant that Blacks and their allies had to obtain
political power. They also had to try to restructure
American society, solving the riddles of poverty
and economic inequality.
This is not the image of King that is celebrated on
Martin Luther King Day. Many of King’s admirers are
uncomfortable with a focus on his mature beliefs. They
seek to deflect unfair attacks on King’s legacy by shroud-
ing him in the cloth of superhuman heroism. In truth, this
shroud is little more than romantic tissue. King’s image
has often suffered a sad fate. His strengths have been
needlessly exaggerated, his weaknesses wildly over-
played. King’s true legacy has been lost to cultural
amnesia. As a nation, we have emphasized King’s
aspiration to save America through inspiring words
and sacrificial deeds. Time and again we replay the
powerful image of King standing on a national stage
in the shadow of the Lincoln Memorial mouthing per-
haps the most famous four words ever uttered by a Black
American: “I have a dream.” For most Americans, those
words capture King’s unique genius. They express his
immortal longing for freedom, a longing that is familiar
to every person who dares imagine a future beyond unjust
laws and unfair customs. The edifying universality of those
four words— who hasn’t dreamed, and who cannot identify
with people whose dreams of a better world are punished
with violence?— helps to explain their durability. But those
words survive, too, because they comfort folk who would
rather entertain the dreams of unfree people than confront
their rage and despair.

13. The authors of both passages agree that King’s “I Have
a Dream” speech

(A) had significant global as well as national influence
(B) has been imitated by many of King’s followers
(C) had a profound impact on many Americans
(D) was typical of King’s thought as a whole
(E) questioned the ethical beliefs of many Americans

14. It can be inferred that, for Julian Bond, a portrait of
“the complete Martin Luther King” (lines 10-11)
would
(A) celebrate King’s influence both within and outside the United States
(B) acknowledge the logical lapses in some of King’s
later work
(C) compare King with other significant figures of
his era
(D) achieve a balance between King’s earlier concerns
and his later ones
(E) reveal information about King’s personal as well
as his public life

15. The author of Passage 2 would most likely view Julian
Bond’s statement in lines 7-11 of Passage 1 with

(A) outright disapproval
(B) considerable surprise
(C) cynical mistrust
(D) cautious optimism
(E) complete agreement

16. In line 17, “suffered” most nearly means

(A) endured
(B) felt
(C) prolonged
(D) tolerated
(E) lamented

17. Lines 31-34 (“Segregation in . . . schools”) serve
primarily to
(A) express ambitious hopes for the future
(B) challenge the accuracy of historical
accounts
(C) provide a contrast with other cultures
(D) illustrate a point with particular examples
(E) defend a series of unusual occurrences

18. The author of Passage 1 mentions the “sermon”
(line 35) primarily in order to

(A) show King’s effectiveness as a public speaker
(B) demonstrate the broad range of King’s interests
(C) illustrate an important trait that King possessed
(D) question King’s ability to empathize with others
(E) remind readers of a significant obligation to King

19. The author of Passage 2 would most likely characterize
the view of King expressed in lines 38-42 of Passage 1
(“The annual . . . America”) as

(A) contradictory
(B) insightful
(C) atypical
(D) simplistic
(E) arrogant

20. Lines 57-58 (“This is . . . Day”) mark a transition
within Passage 2 from a
(A) consideration of King’s views to a critique
of people’s understanding of them
(B) challenge to King’s beliefs to an acceptance
of their cultural resonance
(C) discussion of King’s intellectual predecessors
to an analysis of his legacy
(D) celebration of King’s strengths to an examination of his weaknesses
(E) defense of King’s aspirations to an attack
on those who fail to support them

21. Lines 76-79 in Passage 2 (“The edifying . . .
durability”) are best described as
(A) contesting the notion of King’s historical
importance that is advanced by the author
of Passage 1
(B) providing an explanation for the view of
King’s speech that is expressed by the
author of Passage 1
(C) challenging the portrait of the civil rights
movement that is presented by the author
of Passage 1
(D) offering a humorous anecdote that supports a statement made by the author
of Passage 1
(E) dismissing a perspective that is similarly
rejected by the author of Passage 1

22. Unlike the author of Passage 2, the author of Passage 1
develops his or her argument by


(A) citing an authority with whom he or she disagrees
(B) referring to a famous speech delivered by King
(C) discussing the universal human trait of dreaming
(D) dismissing those who fail to understand the
subtlety of King’s thought
(E) assuming that his or her readers are completely
unfamiliar with King’s ideas

23. The author of Passage 2 would most likely argue
that commemorations focus on “Martin Luther King
the dreamer” (line 7 of Passage 1) because people
find this aspect of King to be


(A) courageous
(B) unpretentious
(C) reassuring
(D) provocative
(E) unexpected

24. Which best characterizes the overall relationship
between the two passages?

(A) Passage 2 rejects the political goals that are
described in Passage 1.
(B) Passage 2 helps account for the responses to a
speech discussed in Passage 1.
(C) Passage 2 romanticizes a person who is
objectively depicted in Passage 1.
(D) Passage 2 recounts the history of a national
holiday that is celebrated in Passage 1.
(E) Passage 2 reflects on a figure who is
denounced in Passage 1.

SECTION 9

1. The writer came to be labeled ------- because she
isolated herself in her apartment, shunning outside
contact.
(A) a loner
(B) a miser
(C) a connoisseur
(D) a conspirator
(E) an ingenue

2. Some Tibetan nomads used yak butter as a -------, one
that often took the place of money in commercial
transactions.
(A) promotion 
(B) commodity
(C) formula
(D) refund
(E) register

3. Geysers vary widely: some may discharge -------,
whereas others may have only a brief explosive
eruption and then remain ------- for hours or days.

(A) violently . . dangerous
(B) continuously . . quiescent
(C) spontaneously . . unpredictable
(D) regularly . . active
(E) faintly . . imperceptible

4. Although the administration repeatedly threatened to
use its authority in order to ------- the student protestors
into submission, they refused to be intimidated.
(A) ease
(B) delude (C) cajole
(D) bully
(E) nudge

5. Only after the campaign volunteers became aware
of their candidate’s questionable motives could they
recognize the ------- statements made in his seemingly
------- speeches.


(A) insightful . . astute
(B) partisan . . callous
(C) cordial . . hostile
(D) duplicitous . . candid
(E) cunning . . surreptitious

6. No longer narrowly preoccupied with their own
national pasts, historians are increasingly ------- in
that they often take a transnational perspective.
(A) conciliatory
(B) bombastic
(C) mendacious
(D) cosmopolitan
(E) jocular

PASSAGE
PREFACE
In the introduction to one of her dramas, a well-known
playwright and actor discusses some of her ideas about
acting.

Words have always held a particular power for me.
I remember leafing through a book of Native American
poems one morning while I was waiting for my Shakespeare
class to begin and being struck by a phrase from the preface,
“The word, the word above all, is truly magical, not only by
its meaning, but by its artful manipulation.”
This quote, which I added to my journal, reminded
me of something my grandfather had told me when I was
a girl: “If you say a word often enough it becomes your
own.” I added that phrase to my journal next to the quote
about the magic of words. When I traveled home to
Baltimore for my grandfather’s funeral a year after my
journal entry, I mentioned my grandfather’s words to my
father. He corrected me. He told me that my grandfather
had actually said, “If you say a word often enough, it
becomes you.” I was still a student at the time, but I knew
even then, even before I had made a conscious decision to
teach as well as act, that my grandfather’s words would be
important.
Actors are very impressionable people, or some would
say, suggestible people. We are trained to develop aspects
of our memories that are more emotional and sensory than
intellectual. The general public often wonders how actors
remember their lines. What’s more remarkable to me is
how actors remember, recall, and reiterate feelings and
sensations. The body has a memory just as the mind does.
The heart has a memory, just as the mind does. The act of
speech is a physical act. It is powerful enough that it can
create, with the rest of the body, a kind of cooperative
dance. That dance is a sketch of something that is inside a
person, and not fully revealed by the words alone. I came
to realize that if I were able to record part of the dance—
that is, the spoken part— and reenact it, the rest of the
body would follow. I could then create the illusion of being
another person by reenacting something she had said as she
had said it. My grandfather’s idea led me to consider that
the reenactment, or the reiteration, of a person’s words
would also teach me about that person.
I had been trained in the tradition of acting called
“psychological realism.” A basic tenet of psychological
realism is that characters live inside of you and that you
create a lifelike portrayal of the character through a process
of realizing your own similarity to the character. When I
later became a teacher of acting, I began to become more
and more troubled by the self-oriented method. I began to
look for ways to engage my students in putting themselves
in other people’s shoes. This went against the grain of the
psychological realism tradition, which was to get the char-
acter to walk in the actor’s shoes. It became less and less
interesting intellectually to bring the dramatic literature of
the world into a classroom of people in their late teens and
twenties, and to explore it within the framework of their
real lives. Aesthetically it seemed limited, because most
of the time the characters all sounded the same. Most char-
acters spoke somewhere inside the rhythmic range of the
students. More troubling was that this method left an
important bridge out of acting. The spirit of acting is the
travel from the self to the other. This “self-based” method
seemed to come to a spiritual halt. It saw the self as the
ultimate home of the character. To me, the search for char-
acter is constantly in motion. It is a quest that moves back
and forth between the self and the other.
I needed evidence that you could find a character’s psy-
chological reality by “inhabiting” that character’s words. I
needed evidence of the limitations of basing a character on
a series of metaphors from an actor’s real life. I wanted to
develop an alternative to the self-based technique, a tech-
nique that would begin with the other and come to the self,
a technique that would empower the other to find the actor
rather than the other way around.

7. The primary purpose of the first three paragraphs
(lines 1-38) is to
(A) describe the actor’s process of developing a role
(B) trace the beginnings of a personal philosophy
(C) analyze the grandfather’s insights into acting
(D) investigate the effect of words on interpersonal
relationships
(E) explore a viewpoint that the author is forced to
reverse

8. The author of the passage uses the quotation in
lines 5-6 primarily as a
(A) vivid expression of how she views words
(B) powerful example of what she sought in
Shakespeare
(C) scholarly citation linking her to poetic words
(D) comical introduction to a problem encountered by
every dramatic performer
(E) pragmatic assessment of the power of words for
beginning drama students

9. By presenting both versions of the grandfather’s words
(lines 9-10 and lines 15-16), the author primarily conveys the

(A) grandfather’s attempts to play with language
(B) grandfather’s enthusiasm in spite of her reaction
(C) father’s intervention in a private moment
(D) ambivalence she feels toward her grandfather
(E) significance of the grandfather’s message

10. The comparisons in lines 26-27 serve primarily to
(A) show the similarities that exist between dancing
and acting
(B) celebrate the broad range of memories that actors
learn to draw on
(C) justify the author’s adherence to conventional
acting theory
(D) explain why actors have difficulty interpreting
character
(E) enhance the author’s credibility as a technically
trained actor

11. In lines 29-34 (“a kind . . . follow”), the author uses the
idea of a dance to
(A) supply an image for the awkwardness some actors
experience
(B) illustrate a process that words can set in motion
(C) portray the enactment of a character as an exhilarating experience
(D) argue that acting requires physical agility
(E) show how a word can evoke multiple meanings

12. In line 34, “follow” most nearly means

(A) pursue
(B) result
(C) surpass
(D) join in
(E) listen carefully

13. In lines 39-62, the author reveals herself to be someone
who believes that
(A) teachers and students should examine controversial
issues together
(B) playwrights especially benefit from experience on
stage
(C) conventional approaches should be open to
questioning and reevaluation
(D) traditional methods often reflect the accumulated
insight of generations
(E) standard practices are the most suitable to teach to
beginners

14. Lines 39-70 present the author’s argument primarily by
(A) celebrating the appeal of a discredited tradition
(B) exploring the impact of her early experiences on
her acting
(C) explaining her reasons for rejecting a technique
(D) describing challenges commonly met by professional actors
(E) analyzing insights gained from debates with other
drama professors

15. The author’s explanation in the fourth paragraph suggests that the “self-oriented method” (line 45) rests on
the assumption that
(A) audience members appreciate complex nuances of
character
(B) the playwright’s biography provides the main evidence for interpreting character
(C) actors have already felt the full range of human
emotions
(D) actors are extremely independent and self-serving
people
(E) actors’ lives become fulfilled through their dramatic portrayals

16. Which statement best captures the author’s point in
lines 54-56 (“Most characters . . . students”) ?
(A) The characters spoke through the students’ own
rich cadences.
(B) Young drama students have an uncanny knack for
conveying character.
(C) Most students found class to be repetitious.
(D) Characterizations were confined by what the
students knew.
(E) The spontaneity that the students had hoped for
had not been achieved.


17. In line 60, the phrase “home of the character” most
nearly means

(A) way of understanding eccentricities
(B) social context surrounding a character
(C) environment for practicing acting
(D) forum in which the self is presented publicly
(E) source of a role’s psychological truth

18. In lines 63-64, “psychological reality” describes which
quality?

(A) The versatility of a performer
(B) The physical gestures of a character
(C) The essence of an identity
(D) The accuracy of an audience’s expectations
(E) The logical consistency of certain actions


19. The “metaphors” in line 66 are best described as

(A) private misgivings
(B) objective observations
(C) abstract equations
(D) memorable phrases
(E) personal comparisons
